iflipb
======

[![MELPA](https://melpa.org/packages/iflipb-badge.svg)](https://melpa.org/#/iflipb)

iflipb lets you flip between recently visited buffers in a way that resembles
what _Alt-(Shift-)TAB_ does in Microsoft Windows and other graphical window
managers. iflipb treats the buffer list as a stack, and (by design) it doesn't
wrap around. This means that when you have flipped to the last buffer and
continue, you don't get to the first buffer again. This is a good thing. (If
you disagree and want wrap-around, set `iflipb-wrap-around` to non-nil.)


Operation
---------

iflipb provides three commands: `iflipb-next-buffer`, `iflipb-previous-buffer`
and `iflipb-kill-buffer`.

`iflipb-next-buffer` behaves like Alt-TAB: it switches to the previously used
buffer, just like _C-x b RET_ (or _C-M-l_ in XEmacs). However, another
consecutive call to `iflipb-next-buffer` switches to the next buffer in the
buffer list, and so on. When such a consecutive call is made, the skipped-over
buffer is not regarded as visited.

While flipping, the names of the most recent buffers are displayed in the
minibuffer, and the currently visited buffer is surrounded by square brackets
and marked with a bold face.

A key thing to notice here is that iflipb displays the buffer contents after
each step forward/backwards (in addition to displaying the buffer names),
unlike for instance the buffer switching model of ido-mode where only the
buffer names are displayed.

`iflipb-previous-buffer` behaves like `Alt-Shift-TAB`: it walks backwards in
the buffer list.

Here is an illustration of what happens in a couple of different scenarios:

                       Minibuffer    Actual
                       display       buffer list
    --------------------------------------------
    Original:                        A B C D E
    Forward flip:      A [B] C D E   B A C D E
    Forward flip:      A B [C] D E   C A B D E
    Forward flip:      A B C [D] E   D A B C E

    Original:                        A B C D E
    Forward flip:      A [B] C D E   B A C D E
    Forward flip:      A B [C] D E   C A B D E
    Backward flip:     A [B] C D E   B A C D E

    Original:                        A B C D E
    Forward flip:      A [B] C D E   B A C D E
    Forward flip:      A B [C] D E   C A B D E
    [Edit buffer C]:                 C A B D E
    Forward flip:      C [A] B D E   A C B D E

iflipb by default ignores buffers whose names start with an asterisk or space.
You can give a prefix argument to `iflipb-next-buffer` to make it flip between
more buffers. See the documentation of the variables `iflipb-ignore-buffers`
and `iflipb-always-ignore-buffers` for how to change this.

`iflipb-kill-buffer` is designed to be bound to `C-x k`. It behaves like
`kill-buffer` but keeps iflipb's buffer list state so that it's possible to
kill a buffer and then advance to the next buffer without starting all over
again.


Installation
------------

To load iflipb, store `iflipb.el` in your Emacs load path and put

    (require 'iflipb)

in your `.emacs` file or equivalent.

iflipb does not install any key bindings for the two commands. I personally use
_M-h_ and _M-H_ (i.e., _M-S-h_) since I don't use the standard binding of _M-h_
(mark-paragraph) and _M-h_ is quick and easy to press. To install iflipb with
_M-h_ and _M-H_ as keyboard bindings, put something like this in your `.emacs`:

    (global-set-key (kbd "M-h") 'iflipb-next-buffer)
    (global-set-key (kbd "M-H") 'iflipb-previous-buffer)

Another alternative is to use `C-tab` and `C-S-tab`:

    (global-set-key (kbd "<C-tab>") 'iflipb-next-buffer)
    (global-set-key
     (if (featurep 'xemacs) (kbd "<C-iso-left-tab>") (kbd "<C-S-iso-lefttab>"))
     'iflipb-previous-buffer)

Or perhaps use functions keys like `F9` and `F10`:

    (global-set-key (kbd "<f10>") 'iflipb-next-buffer)
    (global-set-key (kbd "<f9>")  'iflipb-previous-buffer)


Configuration
-------------

These variables affect iflipb's behavior:

* `iflipb-ignore-buffers` (default: `"^[*]"`)

  This variable determines which buffers to ignore when a prefix argument has
  not been given to `iflipb-next-buffer`. The value may be either a regexp
  string, a function or a list. If the value is a regexp string, it describes
  buffer names to exclude from the buffer list. If the value is a function, the
  function will get a buffer name as an argument (a return value of `nil` from
  the function means include and non-nil means exclude). If the value is a
  list, the filter matches if any of the elements in the value match.

* `iflipb-always-ignore-buffers` (default: `"^ "`)

  This variable determines which buffers to always ignore. The value may be
  either a regexp string, a function or a list. If the value is a regexp
  string, it describes buffer names to exclude from the buffer list. If the
  value is a function, the function will get a buffer name as an argument (a
  return value of `nil` from the function means include and non-nil means
  exclude). If the value is a list, the filter matches if any of the elements
  in the value match.

* `iflipb-wrap-around` (default: `nil`)

  This variable determines whether buffer cycling should wrap around when an
  edge is reached in the buffer list.

* `iflipb-permissive-flip-back` (default: `nil`)

  This variable determines whether `iflipb-previous-buffer` should use the
  previous buffer list when it's the first `iflipb-*-buffer` command in a row.
  In other words: Running `iflipb-previous-buffer` after editing a buffer will
  act as if the current buffer was not visited; it will stay in its original
  place in the buffer list.

* `iflipb-other-buffer-template` (default `"%s"`)

  String template for displaying other buffers. This is the template string
  that will be applied to a non-current buffer name. Use `"%s"` to refer to the
  buffer name.

* `iflipb-current-buffer-template` (default `"[%s]"`)

  String template for displaying the current buffer. This is the template
  string that will be applied to the current buffer name. Use `"%s"` to refer
  to the buffer name.

* `iflipb-buffer-list-function` (default `'iflipb-buffer-list`)

  The function to be used to create the buffer list. Current options are
  `'iflipb-buffer-list` and `'iflipb-ido-buffer-list`.

* `iflipb-format-buffers-function` (default
  `#'iflipb-format-buffers-horizontally`)

  The function to be used to format buffers. The function will get the current
  buffer and a buffer list as arguments. A return value is a string to be
  displayed. Predefined functions are `iflipb-format-buffers-horizontally` for
  a horizontal list and `iflipb-format-buffers-vertically` for a vertical list.
  See also `iflipb-format-buffers-height`.

* `iflipb-format-buffers-height` (default `5`)

  Minibuffer height for displaying buffers when using
  `iflipb-format-buffers-vertically`. The actual height will not exceed the
  height indicated by `max-mini-window-height`.


About
-----

iflipb was inspired by
[cycle-buffer.el](http://kellyfelkins.org/pub/cycle-buffer.el).
`cycle-buffer.el` has some more features, but doesn't quite behave like I want,
so I wrote my own simple replacement.

Have fun!

/Joel Rosdahl <joel@rosdahl.net>
